All right. So now that we've seen how to run our Spark code and a Jupiter Notebook,
the next thing that we want to do is look at how to submit a standalone application,
and there's lots of different reasons why you'd want to do this.
One of the most useful things about the Jupiter notebooks is that they're interactive,
which makes them easy to share with colleagues,
that makes it easy to share visualizations or exploration data.
But when it comes down to it,
you want this Spark job to be deployed typically in
a production server where you don't
necessarily want it to be running on a Jupiter notebook.
Instead, you want it to run on a script that will stand alone in a terminal environment.
So it's very important to be able to deploy whatever code that you
have in a Jupiter notebook also in a stand-alone Python script.
So let's go ahead and go through the exercise of converting
this notebook into a stand-alone Python script that you submit.
There's a few gotchas that you'll find along the way.
So let's return to our terminal.
You should be logged in to the Hadoop EMR.
If you're not, just make sure you are logged in and if you've got logged out,
just hit that SSH command to get logged in.
We have the data that we've imported before,
and we're just going to again use that dummy song data.
So I went ahead and made a Python file with all of
the code that we had from the Jupiter notebook with a few modifications.
In order to see those, go ahead and open your editor of choice.
For me, nano is a pretty simple one.
So I'm going to go ahead and do this.
You could also create this file locally on
your computer using whatever editor you prefer,
and then copy the file over and I will show you how to do that in a little bit as well.
But for the time being, let's go ahead and take a look at
this Python file called lower_songs.
So it's pretty simple file.
Again, it's most of the same code that we saw before,
but with a few key differences.
So first of all,
something that you'll see is that we have the from pyspark.sql import SparkSession,
and this is imported just as if it was any old Python module.
So this is something that's already pre-installed on the EMR cluster for you.
You don't have to do any pip or anything like that to install it,
but you do have to remember to import it.
As a comparison, you'll notice here we did not
have to do that when we were using the Jupiter notebook.
That's because the Jupiter notebook assumes that you're already
running this and imports this for you automatically.
So you don't have to do this in Jupiter notebook,
but you do need to do this when you have a standalone script.
The other thing that you'll see here that is a bit novel.
So of course, there's a bit of standard Python.
So specifying that this is going to
be effectively the main function so that it can be run as a module.
But the other non-trivial thing that's specific to Spark
is the fact that we have this spark equals SparkSession.
So this is where we actually instantiate
the SparkSession module that we're using and specifically, it has this format.
It's usually written in this multi-line format so that you can have it stretch on.
It's potentially has many different options.
But it's going to be SparkSession, and then builder.
Those are standard things,
and then you have the application name.
So this is what you're going to see when you actually submit
your script on the EMR Spark UI.
So I just chose something intuitive.
Lower song titles, that is all this script does.
Then importantly, use get or create.
What that will do is it will get the SparkSession if it already exists.
So that way, it doesn't accidentally create too.
But if it doesn't exist, it will create a brand new one.
So it's a nice feature there.
So that's something new that wasn't present in the previous examples here.
Everything else is more or less exactly what you saw with one small exception.
One of the things you'll see in the Python Jupiter notebooks is that,
we had a special thing called SC.
If you remember that was actually the Spark context,
and it's actually the same thing here.
Just for the Python Jupiter notebooks,
it's abbreviated as SC.
Unless you create that abbreviation as well,
you'll have to actually write out the full spark.spark context.
Again, that's coming from the SparkSession module and then created by using this spark.
So this is really the unique things that you have to add.
Other than that, it's the standard print function that we had before.
Then finally, the last thing that's novel about the Spark script
is that you do have to explicitly tell the Spark's script to stop.
Otherwise, the application would just hang and sometimes you want that.
For example, in the case of a Spark streaming job that you want running for a long time.
But for the case of a batch job where you have
some finite set of data that you want to process once and just once,
you'll go ahead and do a Spark stop at the very end of your script.
Okay. So that's the script.
Let's go ahead and leave this,
and then see how to actually submit the script to the Spark cluster.
So the command to do that is actually called spark submit pretty intuitive.
However, it's not obvious where that command actually is located.
It's in a slightly different location for every system.
Sometimes it's created in a spark home,
but on EMR, it's actually in the following place user bin.
If you ever forget where,
there's always a nice Linux command that will help you find that called which.
So if you ever forget where this is,
you can always type which spark-submit,
and it will actually show you the full path for that.
So if you want, you can just copy that command.
Then the syntax has a lot of different options.
But generally speaking, most of them are
just the name of the particular option you want preceded by two hyphens.
So for example, you typically have to specify the location of the master node.
Sometimes this is an IP address if you were using other Spark deployments.
But because we're using the Spark yarn mode,
we simply type yarn here.
It's really simple. Yarn is a resource negotiator or resource manager,
and so it will be able to automatically detect the IP.
You don't have to enter it yourself which is a nice convenience.
The next thing that you have to do is well,
you could mark number just think configurations.
But at a bare minimum,
you would just put the path of the actual Python script that you'd like to run.
So in this case, it's in the current directory.
So we'll just go ahead and type that out.
Then once you hit enter,
it should submit that job to the spark cluster.
So you're going to see a lot of these info.
So I'll kind of pause it for a second.
You're going to see a lot of things that say info on it.
If it says info, it's just really telling you information.
It's not necessarily a problem.
You'll also see a few of these that say WARN.
In this particular case,
this is a warning about the Spark UI not being able to use port 4040.
That's perfectly okay because we're actually already running something there.
So that's not a problem per se because on the next line,
you can see that it was able to run it on 4041.
So you're going to see a lot of things whenever you submit these applications.
Most of them, you can more or less ignore and most people learn how to.
We can also show you in a later video how
to turn off down these warnings so that you only see for example,
don't see the info's, you only see the warnings or errors.
But most people just leave them on and go from there.
So occasionally, you'll see a bigger block like this,
and this can be quite useful because it contains
the URL where you can actually find more information.
So if you click on this or alternatively,
if you go back to our Spark UI,
what you'll see if you refresh the page is that there
is a new application that was ran at the very top.
So if you actually click on that application,
you can learn all sorts of information about the Spark UI.
We'll be going through all the details and how to use this to debug.
But effectively, you can see that in this case,
the job ran successfully,
and you can also click even further down.
You can look at individual steps.
You can look at the timeline.
You can visualize the DAG.
Most importantly, you can also see the standard out and standard errors if there
were any for particular processes and particular tasks.
So in this case,
those wouldn't be interesting.
There's nothing really that went wrong.
But this is a useful thing that will go over in more detail later.
Returning to our script,
let's go ahead and actually see the thing of note,
the result that we're looking for.
So one of the challenges with running a Python script as
opposed to a Jupiter notebook is that it is a little bit hard to actually see the output.
If you look carefully,
you'll notice that this line does actually have the output,
but it's buried in the middle of the process.
It's sometimes not clear,
especially if your output is just a simple number or something like that.
It can be very easy to miss that.
So one of the things that you'll actually want to do is rather than just printing out to
the command line which it's useful
when you're developing code and making sure that things are working.
It's a much better practice to actually write the output of
your file to an actual output file.
Instead of writing it just to the command line.
That also makes it easy to see the result.
If I were to close this terminal,
I'd lose the results and then have to run the Spark job,
which in this case took just a few seconds,
but it could have taken a lot longer.
You wouldn't want that to be the case.
So the common best practice is to actually write to a file,
and we'll show how to do that in a second. But that's it.
How you submit Python application and in this case,
a simple application to just lowercase the words of songs.
But we'll go through some more complicated ones.
It's always very important to make sure
that you can get a very simple application to work,
and I suggest you do that yourself before trying to do
anything more complicated like loading input data from a different source,
or trying to do some more complicated calculations.